                                                                     
                                                                     
                                                                     
                                             

First Call for Papers
The First Conference on Artificial General Intelligence (AGI-08)
March 1-3, 2008, at Memphis, Tennessee, USA
http://www.agi-08.org
Paper submission deadline: September 30, 2007
---------------------------

The field of Artificial Intelligence (AI) was initially directly aimed at the construction of "thinking machines" – that is, computer systems with human-like general intelligence. But this task proved very difficult, and so as steps in this direction, AI researchers focused on producing AI systems displaying intelligence regarding specific tasks in relatively narrow domains. In recent years, however, the situation has been changing. More and more researchers have recognized the necessity – and feasibility – of returning to the original goals of the field. Increasingly, there is a call for a transition from the current focus on highly specialized "narrow AI" problem solving systems, back to confronting the more difficult issues of "human level intelligence" and more broadly "artificial general intelligence (AGI)."

Encouraged by the recent success of several smaller-scale AGI-Related Meetings (www.agi-08.org/related.php) we have taken the initiative to facilitate the very first international conference on AGI. The AGI-08 conference will give AGI researchers the opportunity for presenting research results and exchanging ideas on topics of common interest. During the conference, we will also discuss the possibility of creating a new organization to promote and coordinate AGI research.

The conference is explicitly open to all the various techniques used in seeking to realize general intelligence – for instance, symbolic, connectionist, evolutionary, robotic, mathematical, or integrative approaches (... or new approaches that the conference organizers have never heard of!). We are particularly interested in papers describing concrete, reasonably well-fleshed-out AGI projects – meaning, research projects that:

- are based on a coherent theory about "intelligence" as a whole
- involve a concrete engineering plan oriented toward implementing the relevant conception of general intelligence in a computer system
- have already produced some concrete results, either practical or theoretical

However, we are also open to high-quality submissions that address key aspects of AGI from a purely theoretical perspective, or that discuss AGI projects at an earlier stage of development. There is a list of Suggested Topics (www.agi-08.org/suggested.php) at the conference website, though other topics are also welcomed, so long as there is a recognizable relation to AGI, as defined above.

AGI-08 will be an inter-disciplinary meeting. Besides computer scientists and engineers, we also welcome researchers from cognitive science, psychology, linguistics, neuroscience, philosophy, and other allied fields.

Conference Format
---------------------------
A tentative schedule (www.agi-08.org/schedule.php) is available at the conference website.

Briefly speaking, the conference will consist of several technical sessions, a poster session, and a few special sessions as well. Each technical session will be organized around a topic, and have time for talks, panel discussion, and general discussion.

Paper Submission
---------------------------
AGI-08 will accept two types of submissions: full-length papers (12 pages) and short position statements (5 pages). All submissions should be prepared using the IOS templates (www.iospress.nl/authco/instruction_crc.html), either in LaTeX or in MS Word.

All the papers will be submitted electronically. The details of the submission procedure will be announced before the due date at the conference website.

AGI-08 Proceedings will be published by IOS Press, a major AI publisher. All accepted papers will also be available on-line for open access.

Whether an accepted paper (of either length) will be presented as a talk or as a poster will be determined by the Program Committee, in part based on paper quality as assessed by the anonymous reviewers, and in part according to the extent the paper addresses a topic of core interest to the AGI community.

The acceptance of a paper is based on the assumption that one of the authors will attend the conference to present the paper.

Important Due Dates
---------------------------
- September 30, 2007: Paper submission
- November 30, 2007: Acceptance notification
- December 20, 2007: Camera-ready copy submission

Organizing Committee
---------------------------
  Stan Franklin (Chair), franklin -at- memphis.edu
  Sidney D'Mello, sdmello -at- memphis.edu
  Ben Goertzel, ben -at- novamente.net
  Bruce Klein, bruce -at- novamente.net
  Lee McCauley, mccauley -at- memphis.edu
  Pei Wang, pei.wang -at- temple.edu

Program Committee
---------------------------
  Ben Goertzel (Co-Chair), Novamente LLC
  Pei Wang (Co-Chair), Temple University
  Sam S. Adams, IBM Research
  James Anderson, Brown University
  Mike Anderson, Franklin & Marshall College
  Mark H. Bickhard, Lehigh University
  Yaneer Bar-Yam, New England Complex Systems Institute
  Eric Baum, Baum Research Enterprises
  Henry Brighton, Max Planck Institute for Human Development
  Nick Cassimatis, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
  Hernan Castro, Intel Corporation
  Andrew Coward, Australian National University
  Hugo de Garis, Wuhan University
  Debbie Duong, Science Applications International Corporation
  Wlodzislaw Duch, Nicolaus Copernicus University
  Richard Duro, Universidade da Coruña
  Stan Franklin, University of Memphis
  David Friedlander, Behavior Recognition Systems
  Phil Goetz, National Library of Medicine
  Josh Storrs Hall, Institute for Molecular Manufacturing
  Marcus Hutter, Australian National University
  Cliff Joslyn, Los Alamos National Laboratory
  Nikola Kasabov, Auckland University of Technology
  Randal Koene, Boston University
  Christian Lebiere, Carnegie Mellon University
  Soo-Young Lee, Korea Advanced Institute of Science & Technology
  Douglas Lenat, Cycorp
  Moshe Looks, Science Applications International Corporation
  Bruce MacLennan, University of Tennessee
  Don Perlis, University of Maryland
  Matthias Scheutz, University of Notre Dame
  Juergen Schmidhuber, Dalle Molle Institute for Artificial Intelligence
  Lokendra Shastri, International Computer Science Institute
  Aaron Sloman, University of Birmingham
  David G. Stork, Ricoh Innovations
  John Gerald Taylor, King's College London
  Karin Verspoor, Los Alamos National Laboratory
  Paul Vogt, Tilburg University
  Mark Waser, Books International
  Mary-Anne William, University of Technology, Sydney

More information
---------------------------
http://www.agi-08.org
